Add cart initialization doc (#116)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/cart/initialization.mdx

---
title: Cart initialization

> description: Learn how to configure initializer for the cart drop-in component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to configure the initializer for the cart drop-in component.
```

---

import OptionsTable from '@components/OptionsTable.astro';

The cart drop-in component initializer provides options for configuring language definitions and extending the default models with new fields and transformers.

## Configuration options

The cart component initializer accepts the following configuration options:

<OptionsTable
  options={[
    ['Option', 'Type', 'Req?', 'Description'],
    ['disableGuestCart', 'boolean', 'No', 'Whether guest carts have been disabled.'],
    ['langDefinitions', 'object', 'No', 'Provides language definitions for internationalization (i18n).'],

>     ['models', 'object', 'No', 'Extend the default models (CartModel, CustomerModel, and OrderModel) with new fields and transform them as needed.'],

Reviewer: Does it accept anything except `CartModel`? On line 63, we say `CartModel` only.

  ]}
/>

### Example

The following code shows an example implementation of the cart initializer configuration:

```ts
// Initialize cart 
initializeDropin(async () => {
  await initializers.mountImmediately(initialize, {
    langDefinitions,
    models,
  });
})();
```

### Set language definitions

> The `langDefinitions` property is used to fetch and register dictionary files for the cart component. This allows you to provide localized text for different languages in your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `langDefinitions` property is used to register the dictionary files for the cart component for internationalization purposes. This allows you to provide localized text for different languages in your application.
```

```ts

> // Define the language packs for your application

Reviewer 2: **Suggestion (clarification):** These next two lines don't actually define the language packs. They are fetching the content of the translation dictionaries, which are json files that map translated text to keys, which get referred to in the dropin code.

const en_US = await fetch('/i18n/en_US.json').then((res) => res.json());
const fr_FR = await fetch('/i18n/fr_FR.json').then((res) => res.json());

// Register the component with language definitions
const langDefinitions = {
  default: en_US,
  en_US,
  fr_FR,
};

// Register initializers
initializers.register(api.initialize, {
  langDefinitions,
});
```

### Set models

> You can extend the default models in the cart component and provide transformers to process new fields.

Reviewer 2: **Suggestion:** Would be good to link to wherever this content is publicly available: https://elsie.dev/?path=/docs/build-tools-graphql-api--overview#using-the-graphql-extensibility-feature-in-your-storefront

Otherwise it's missing some context on how those new fields got into the graphql data in the first place.

Author: I created [USF-1730](https://jira.corp.adobe.com/browse/USF-1730) to track this.
